let's turn to the Middle East now where
Israel's defense minister has been
outlining his plans for Gaza once its
war with Hamas is over it comes almost
three months after hamas's deadly
October the 7th attacks on Southern
Israel which triggered the conflict
under yuav galant's four corner
proposals Hamas would no longer control
Gaza and Israel would retain overall
security control a multinational force
would take charge of rebuilding Gaza
after its widespread destruction in
Israeli bombing neighboring Egypt would
also have an unspecified role under the
plan but Gaza would be run by
Palestinian bodies as long as they were
not hostile towards Israel while
fighting in Gaza has continued alongside
the plan's publication the Hamas run
Health Ministry says that dozens of
people have been killed in the past 24
hours let's go straight now to our
correspondent Yulan Nell who's in
Jerusalem for us so Yulan how does this
plan tally with the ideas that the US
was suggesting for the day after in Gaza
well uh Washington which is of course
Israel's closest Ally has been calling
consistently for a detailed uh plan for
the day after what we have at the moment
is really a kind of set of bullet points
from the defense minister um but uh
there has been this insistence that it
should be Palestinians who are governing
uh in Gaza in the future and this plan
uh does account for that it says
specifically that there will be no
Israeli civilian presence in the Gaza
Strip at the end of the war um now that
is important because you've had
far-right ministers in Israel's
coalition government who have been
calling for the return of Jewish
settlers to the Gaza Strip and there are
some who've been calling for the forced
displacement of Palestinians and that is
something that has um stirred up a lot
of anger around the region with other
Arab countries um also uh with the
Americans saying that that talk was
inflammatory and
irresponsible what about the
Palestinians what's their view on
this there's been relatively little
comment uh from the palestin Ians so far
uh perhaps because this is really just
the kind of sketch of a plan we are
going to have the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin coming in a few days
time and he will be visiting Palestinian
leaders in the Palestinian Authority in
the occupied West Bank as well as
Israeli leaders and we know that in the
past uh the US has been pushing for the
Palestinian Authority kind of a
revitalized Palestinian Authority to
have a role in the future of Gaza uh the
Palestinian Authority is the body that
governs parts of the West Bank but on
the Palestinian side you know it has
proved to be unpopular Palestinians have
been saying in polls uh that really uh
it it would take a kind of a different
look to to the makeup of the Palestinian
authorities they see at the moment for
them to be convinced that it could be uh
put in control of the Gaza Strip as well
and how difficult would would it be to
assemble the multinational force that
Israel is talking about to to how would
who would be part of
it I mean that of course is still uh to
be discussed there's so much to still to
be discussed uh with this plan uh
perhaps not surprising it's saying that
the US would take a lead role here it
has already been so much involved uh in
this war but uh I expected they would be
looking to International bodies to the
UN agencies that already have a big role
in getting humanitarian Aid into Gaza um
and already have had historically a long
presence in the Gaza Strip to be very
involved in the Reconstruction efforts
uh but it's sort of made clear by other
statements from the Israeli defense
Minister that Israel would insist that
it still has Security checks on all
materials that are going into Gaza and
there have been calls too for um
reinforcement to to stop smuggling
across the border with Egypt because
there's a lot of concern about how um
Hamas and other armed groups in Gaza
have brought in weapons or weapons Parts
in the past we know that the Secretary
of State as you mentioned earlier
Anthony blinkin is going to be having
talks again how is it going because at
the moment Israel hasn't seemed to have
listened at all on on the US's request
to try and scale back uh some of the
operations in Gaza to try and protect
human life and also allow more
humanitarian Aid in how is that
discussion going to go given that Israel
hasn't changed its uh its Methods at the
moment well it's interesting that at the
top of the list of what Anthony blinkin
says he wants to achieve in this region
is the protection of civilians in Israel
the West Bank and Gaza he says and we we
know of course that there have been
these calls from the US to the intensity
of the operations in Gaza because of the
high numbers of civilians uh being
killed now what we have seen is Israel
saying that it's starting to pull out uh
some of its Ground Forces its combat
troops but at the same time we have seen
in recent days still very heavy
bombardment um of the Gaza Strip and
heavy heavy shelling as well and that is
continuing to cause high numbers of
Civilian casualties youan n for the
latest there from Jerusalem thank you
very much